
\input starlog

\centerline{\bf Starlog I}

\smallskip

\centerline{John Douglas Harold Pritchard}

\break



It had been difficult for Shevek to take the space walk.  Takver felt
his discomfort with it.  As a physicist, Shevek knew the dangers well
enough for a healthy case of hypochondria.  Takver knew the
probabilities well enough to know more about his hyper emotional body
awareness than he did.  It grew out of the earth they lived on,
another wave relation in their space.  Another subject, another
language.

\smallskip

Cornelius surveyed the orange plains of the martian riverbed through
vizov.  The life there was growing by his efforts, and those of the
PDC in raising atmospheric elements.  The terraformation of Mars would
achieve its next milestone this quarter.

\smallskip

Shevek looked down at the planetoid under him and entered the airlock.
He sat three hours.  She was here.  He exited with a copper and gold
visor, and pulled himself to the stations nadir.  Takver grabbed him
when he came over the aerodynamic bow of the structure.  She was home.

\smallskip

Cornelius would build a lake in this place, wooded with pine and oak.
It would take a hundred years, and would be named Lake Stuart.  The
next decade would develop an increasingly large scale dirt farm,
emerging from the ecosystem of the lake bed.

Last month it rained ten inches.  The clouds cooled the atmosphere at
his altitude of three hundred meters above the planned tidal mean.
When they cleared it was fifteen degrees.  A typical thunderstorm
lowered the ambient temperature by five degrees.

Stuarts farm covered the two miles of flood plan at its greatest
extent.  The hills rose to fifty meters.  Covered in grass, the plain
sprouted wild flowers, worms and wasps.  Cornelius readied for trees
and bats and birds.  This quarter he would introduce dragonflies,
ahead of the birds.

With the pines came warblers and then woodpeckers.  The PDCs seeded
species had come to bloom across Stuart's and many similar areas
across the planet.  Arid covering projects had achieved the area
necessary to the lifecycle.  From space the planet had become green
and tan and black.  Water production balanced the ground projects.
Oceans were scheduled for coming decades.

\bye
